Description of modernization in winforms code-behind generation in the VS 2022 17.5 Preview3 (#8503)
dotnet/winforms: docs/designer/modernization-of-code-behind-in-OOP-designer/modernization-of-code-behind-in-oop-designer.md

> # Modernization of code-behind in WinForms OOP designer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Modernization of code-behind in WinForms Out-Of-Process designer
```

Previously COM-based [CodeModel interface](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/envdte.codemodel?view=visualstudiosdk-2022) was used to write code into the editor's buffer as well as to generate CodeDOM tree from the source code when designer was loading. This COM object was accessible from the main thread only, which prevented parallelization in source code processing. Also, being more than 20 years old, it did not support some of the newer language features, for example the `nameof()` expression.

## What's different

Starting with [Visual Studio 2022 v17.5 Preview 3](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/preview/), the WinForms out-of-process designer uses [Roslyn](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn) for design time serialization.

> In Preview 3, designer serializes more modern code into `InitializeComponent`. We have worked hard to ensure that you can take projects between this version of Visual Studio and earlier versions. Someday in the future, we may build on the improvements in our serialization to enable performance enhancements and use newer language features. These potential future investments may break the backwards compatibility with earlier VS versions - but we will be sure to inform our developers well ahead of such changes so that you can prepare.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Preview 3, designer serializes more modern code into `InitializeComponent`. We have ensured the ability to take projects between this version of Visual Studio and earlier versions. In the future, we may build on the improvements in our serialization to enable performance enhancements and use newer language features. These potential future investments may break the backwards compatibility with earlier VS versions - but we will be sure to inform our developers well ahead of such changes so that you can prepare.
```

Author: I like the removal of `someday`. But I'd rather keep `worked hard to`, it sounds like a commitment to compatibility and a celebration of the work done.

## Why change it

* The use of Roslyn unblocks multithreaded serialization and deserialization to solve performance delays in designer load and unload scenarios.
* Code-behind generation now respects `.editorconfig` settings and thus matches code style in the source files.
* If implicit usings feature is enabled in project properties, global namespaces are not repeated in type names.
* Further modernization of code-behind is unblocked.
* Newly generated code will work with modern Roslyn analyzers.

## How the new code looks like

> While `InitializeComponent` method is meant for the designer use only, and manual modifications to this method are not supported, developers might see some unexpected changes in `Form1.Designer.cs` and `Form1.designer.vb` files when comparing versions in the source control tools. This is a one-time code churn. Once the designer file is regenerated in v17.5 Preview 3 or newer and saved, designer will generate code only for controls modified in the design surface.

Reviewer: The last sentence seems like it would be better suited for after the example shown so readers see what the one-time code churn looks like and then get clarification on what the generated code will look like after that one-time code churn.

For example, `InitializeComponent` method for a form with a button will be modified like this on the first save:

![Comparison of Form1.Designer.cs as generated by Visual Studio 2022 v17.4 or earlier against the same file generated by v17.5 Preview 3](./images/Form1-Designer-C%23-comparison.png)

> Code generated by VisualStudio v17.4 or earlier:

Reviewer: Should this be changed to v17.5 Preview 2 or earlier since the other image is for v17.5 Preview 3 or newer?

Author: I don't think 3rd party developers can move backwards to the preview releases easily, so preview 2 looks like an unnecessary specificity. If a developer is looking for a backwards compatible version, they should be installing 17.4 which is an LTS release. I mention Preview3 explicitly for those who opted in into the IntPreview channel. This reference will be removed after the GA.

Author: I'd rather remove the mentions of release versions when we go GA.

Reviewer: Ah yes that makes a lot of sense, thank you for the clarification.

dotnet_style_qualification_for_field = true
dotnet_style_qualification_for_method = true
dotnet_style_qualification_for_property = true
```

### Support for implicit usings property

Namespace names were removed from the type names in Preview 3 version. They are not needed for type resolution because design time serialization looks up the [implicit usings](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tutorials/top-level-templates#implicit-using-directives) property, available in C# starting with .NET 6 for C#, from the project file:

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <OutputType>WinExe</OutputType>
    <TargetFramework>net8.0-windows</TargetFramework>
    <Nullable>enable</Nullable>
    <UseWindowsForms>true</UseWindowsForms>
    <ImplicitUsings>enable</ImplicitUsings>
  </PropertyGroup>

</Project>
```

When implicit usings property is disabled in the C# project file, namespace names are generated.

### Similar changes are present in Visual Basic

![Comparison of Form1.Designer.vb as generated by Visual Studio 2022 v17.4 or earlier against the same file generated by v17.5 Preview 3](./images/Form1-Designer-VB-comparison.png)

> Code generated by VisualStudio v17.4 or earlier:

Reviewer: Same here, should this be v17.5 Preview 2 or earlier?

Author: I'd rather remove the mentions of release versions when we go GA.
